Our theme for this month's program is you are precious to Jehovah.
How vital it is that we remind ourselves of that.
Why? Well, let's consider three reasons.
First, Satan wants us to believe that Jehovah doesn't love us or value our service.
He wanted Job to believe that.
But that was a lie in Job's day, and it's still a lie today.
A second reason that we need to be reminded that we're precious to Jehovah
is because of negative circumstances or events that have taken place in our life.
Severe illness, advancing years, injustices, mistreatment, a difficult family life,
or other situations may cause some brothers and sisters to feel that they're just not worth loving.
Some may question why Jehovah allows those things to happen.
Finally, we need reminders of how Jehovah feels about us
because our imperfection can cause us to have negative thoughts.
Some may still punish themselves for past mistakes,
doubting that Jehovah has forgiven them, or that he could ever love them.
Others wage a constant battle against feelings of worthlessness.
One witness wrote,
Satan has done an excellent job of making even those who loved Jehovah feel worthless and unlovable.
I never felt worthy of Jehovah's love,
so I tried to do more and more in his service as a way of earning that love.
So no matter how many hours I spent in the ministry,
or how many people I helped, I felt it was not enough.
I saw only the lack in me.
One brother stated,
I came from a family that showed little love.
I was belittled, teased, and laughed at.
So early in life, I felt worthless.
I still carry entrenched feelings from my past that beat me down when I experienced calamity.
When I stopped serving as a congregation elder,
I felt like a failure as usual.
To God, my family, and my brothers in the congregation.
If you've experienced such feelings, you're not alone.
So how can you be assured of Jehovah's interest?
Let's examine three lines of evidence that prove your precious to Jehovah.
First, we'll examine Jehovah's feelings for the nation of Israel.
Second, we'll reflect on an event recorded in the Gospels.
And third, we'll consider a modern-day example of one who was very precious to God.
By the end of the 16th century BCE,
millions of Israelites were enslaved in Egypt,
where they were severely oppressed.
In their distress, the Israelites cried out to Jehovah.
How did he feel?
Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 63 verse 9.
During all their distress, it was distressing to him.
Did you notice?
Not only did Jehovah see their troubles,
he felt for his people,
and he was moved to act in their behalf.
Isaiah chapter 63 verse 9 goes on to say,
in his love and compassion, he repurchased them.
Jehovah couldn't see their suffering or hear their outcries
without feeling for them and doing something about it.
That may remind us of the loving concern that a mother has for her newborn child.
When that baby cries, the mother takes notice,
and she feels for her child.
In fact, notice how this is expressed at Isaiah chapter 49 verse 15.
It reads,
can a woman forget her nursing child,
or have no compassion for the son of her womb?
Even if these women forget,
I would never forget you.
It's hard to imagine a mother forgetting to nourish
and care for her nursing child.
That baby is helpless.
Day and night it needs its mother's attention.
Sad to say, however,
we hear at times of such maternal neglect.
But what did Jehovah say to reassure the Israelites?
I would never forget you.
Yes, the tender compassion that Jehovah felt for his servants
was immeasurably stronger than one of the most tender
and natural feelings we can imagine.
The compassion a mother normally feels for her baby.
Jehovah's feelings for the Israelites
are summed up in another expression in the book of Isaiah.
Please read with me Isaiah chapter 43 verse 4.
For you became precious in my eyes.
You were honored and I have loved you.
Jehovah clearly expressed his feelings for his people.
As one of Jehovah's servants,
you can be sure that he also loves you most tenderly.
No matter what trials you're facing now
or have endured in the past,
Jehovah sees you and he feels for you.
When you hurt, he hurts.
You are far too precious to Jehovah for him to forget you.
He remembers your past efforts
and he sees your continuing efforts to please him.
Notice how Jehovah promises to sustain and comfort his people
according to Isaiah chapter 66 verses 12 and 13.
You will nurse and be carried on the hip
and you will be bounced on the knees.
As a mother comforts her son,
so I will keep comforting you.
What a heartwarming scene.
Imagine a loving mother carrying a baby on her hip
or bouncing him on her knees.
In this way,
Jehovah touchingly illustrates the intensity
and tenderness of his love for you.
Just as Jehovah loved his people Israel,
he likewise feels that you are very precious and dear.
Never doubt that.
A second example of how Jehovah feels about his faithful servants
can be found in the gospels.
Let's read what happened on one occasion
when Jesus was at the temple in Jerusalem
at Luke chapter 21 verses 1 through 4.
Now as he looked up,
he saw the rich dropping their gifts into the treasury chests.
Then he saw a needy widow
drop in two small coins,
a very little value.
And he said,
truly I say to you that this poor widow
put in more than they all did.
For all of these put in gifts out of their surplus,
but she, out of her want,
or as the footnote says,
poverty put in all the means of living she had.
The study note for verse 2
in the New World translation of the Holy Scriptures
tells us that the Greek word for needy
may describe a person who lacks the basic necessities of life
or someone for whom life is a great struggle.
In the Christian Greek Scriptures,
it is used only here.
Just think about the widow's circumstances.
Not only had she experienced the grief of losing her husband,
her provider,
but she also lived in a religious climate dominated by leaders
who, according to Luke chapter 20 verse 47,
would devour the houses of the widows
rather than help such vulnerable ones.
That widow was so poor that her contribution to the temple
was what a labor might earn in just a few minutes.
Life wasn't easy for her.
In fact, Jesus said that she put in all the means of living she had.
Our publications have stated that the coins
the widow contributed were likely too lepta.
With eight lepta, a person could buy two sparrows
which were among the cheapest birds used for food.
So the widow had only half the amount needed to buy one sparo,
hardly enough for a single meal,
yet both the widow and her contribution were valuable to Jehovah.
Jesus said that her contribution was greater than the contributions of the rich.
When she put those two small coins in the treasury chest,
they would be mixed with what the rich had put in.
To imperfect human eyes, they might seem lost, buried.
Yet this precious widow was the one Jesus singled out for praise.
When the treasury workers came across the coins,
they wouldn't have known how precious the coins and their donor were to Jehovah.
But God's view was the one that really mattered.
Not what other people thought, or even how that dear widow viewed herself.
Like that widow, you may find that circumstances limit what you can contribute to Jehovah.
Age, infirmities, or other circumstances beyond your control
may limit the amount of time you're able to spend in the ministry.
You might feel that your efforts are like those two small coins, a very little value.
Still, we learn from this account of the needy widow that Jehovah notices
and he treasures each act done for him,
especially when we do it despite difficult circumstances.
For a moment, think back on your worship of Jehovah during the past year.
Some of you may feel that you accomplished little.
Your imperfect heart might cause you to wonder whether Jehovah was pleased with your efforts.
However, did one of the hours you spent require a special sacrifice on your part?
If Jehovah took notice of the widow dropping in those two coins and valued her contribution,
don't you think he also noticed and values what you did for him during that hour?
Jehovah values every gift no matter how small that springs from a heart motivated by love.
He remembers and he'll reward even the smallest contribution given in support of his kingdom.
That's proof of how Jehovah feels about you.
Finally, let's consider a modern-day example of one who was very precious to Jehovah.
It's the experience of Sister Aretti Pina.
Sister Pina lived on the southern coast of Albania in the town of Vlor.
She was baptized in 1928 at the age of 18.
There was a strong congregation in Vlor in the 1930s,
and Sister Pina was a zealous evangelizer who climbed up and down rugged mountains preaching with her Bible in hand.
In time, a congregation no longer existed in Vlor, and Sister Pina lost contact with the brothers.
Yet, she kept preaching faithfully on her own.
Do you think her efforts went unnoticed by Jehovah?
Well, years later, word reached the brothers that there was an old senile woman who was reportedly preaching in Vlor.
People thought she was crazy for keeping faith in God during years of totalitarian rule.
Yet, Sister Pina, now in her 80s, was anything but senile.
When the brothers arrived at her home, Sister Pina invited them in.
But she seemed somewhat reserved.
When they explained that they were her spiritual brothers, she had no reaction.
After a few minutes, Sister Pina started firing questions at the brothers.
Do you believe in the Trinity?
What is God's name? Do you believe in hellfire?
What happens when we die?
What about the earth? How many go to heaven?
The brothers answered each question.
Do you preach? She then asked.
Yes, said one brother. We preach.
But she responded. How do you preach?
We preach from house to house, replied the brother.
Now I know that you are my brothers, she exclaimed.
Only Jehovah's people preach from house to house.
Through her tears, Sister Pina stated,
Jehovah is wonderful.
He never forgot me.
Sometime later, the brothers were notified that Sister Pina was ill
and that she wanted to meet with one of the responsible brothers.
When he arrived, she asked in part, as she gasped for air,
has the book of revelation been fulfilled?
The brother responded.
Yes, Arati. Most of it has.
Sister Pina said,
Now I can die in peace.
I needed to know how close we are.
Shortly after that conversation, Sister Pina faithfully finished her earthly course.
What do you think?
During all those years of isolation from the earthly part of Jehovah's organization,
did Sister Pina's efforts go unnoticed by Jehovah?
Absolutely not.
Just imagine Jehovah's joy as he watched her faithfully doing what she could in his service.
Do you think that Sister Pina was precious to Jehovah?
Without a doubt she was.
Well, your efforts in Jehovah's service do not go unnoticed by him either.
Like Sister Pina, you are precious to him.
So what does this consideration help us to realize?
We may have to contend with Satan's lies, negative circumstances and events in our lives,
and our own imperfections.
But we should never forget that Jehovah highly values his servants.
We saw that in his words to the Israelites through the prophet Isaiah.
You can be sure that Jehovah loves you most tenderly.
No matter what trials you're facing now or have endured in the past,
Jehovah sees you and he feels for you.
When you hurt, he hurts.
You're far too precious to Jehovah for him to forget you.
The account of the widow at Luke chapter 21 can assure you
that all those circumstances may affect what you can contribute to Jehovah.
He notices and treasures each act you do for him,
especially when you do it in the face of difficult circumstances.
He remembers and he will reward even the smallest contribution given in support of his kingdom.
And what beautiful modern day examples we have in the organization
of brothers and sisters who have proven their loyalty to Jehovah
and are precious to him.
Like the example of Sister Pena.
Dear brothers and sisters, please never forget that you are precious to Jehovah.